# Daily Note: 2022 April 20

start working at 0753 to 1100, went back home for a nap and lunch,then from 1405 to 1804, went to Alma 3 for dinner (better take my own made dinner from now on), 1840 to 2031. Overall time lapse: ~ 9 hours.

### Aim

- finish `bbox_coverage.py`. I can use the code in `geometry.py`.
- try to get the sparsity of bounding boxes. 
  - I want to use one central dot to represent the image position, and then use the dot positions to calculate some sparsity-related measurements.
- try to get a visualization of the bounding box positions in the 144 images in the training set. Or I cannot assure that it is plausible to use sum instead of union for the bounding box coverage calculation.


### Work

- `bbox_coverage.py` - finished
  - I can acquire both the bounding box information and the resolution information in the same fashion as the variable `infos` in `img_split.py` at line 283. (I am not familiar with the feeling of using other's code. Trying to learn)
  - before that. the file `launch.json` should be set up for debugging. The arguments are parsed via this file. 
  - line 109, 110, 275, 278 are commented for debugging. make sure to uncomment after the work.
  - I am not familiar with the Python code for multi thread processing. It is vague for iterating items. 
  - `P4228.png` has no annotation or bbox values, but in the annotation file, there is only one annotation called airport. This is my internal bug, not the code `bbox_coverage.py` bug.
  - annotation now is right. Updated `~/readme.md` for this part.
  - hard to implement a union (the only way I know is to take the IoU recursively for every bounding box in one image), decided to switch to the sum of area instead of union. Left a rabbit hole to be continued. (now 1100)
  - Back at 1600. Carelessly permenantly deleted the work done in the morning. Recovered the results in half an hour.
  - implemented [shoelace formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shoelace_formula) to calculate the area of vertices. Finished calculating the mean and variance of bbox coverage at 1801.
  - go for lunch at 1804. 
- `window_rej.py`

### Outputs

- `bbox_coverage.py`
  - The mean of bbox coverage is 0.1266428175653425 (in the training set)
  - The variance of bbox coverage is 0.021419500135768814 (in the training set)
  - The following experiment is done with part 4 of the training set.

- `window_rej.py`
- - highly adapted from `img_split.py`.
  - explaination of the parameters:
    - `Attempt`: index of experiments.
    - input `sizes`: the size of sub image, or sliding window.
    - input `gaps`: the stepsize of sliding window. gaps set too large, then some of the object on the edge of some sub images will be permanently lost; gaps set too small,then the generated sub images will be too much.
    - input `obj_rej_thres`: object rejection threshold. If this is set to 0, then no sub images will be rejected because the number of objects it contains is too small.
    - output `reject_ratio`: the ratio between number of discarded sub images and all detected sub images.
    - output `obj_upper_lim`: the number of objects in all subimages which are not discarded.
    - output `obj_num`: the number of objects contained in all sub images, before rejection.
  - The following table is the result of evaluation over part 4 of the training set.


| `Attempt` | `sizes` | `gaps` | `obj_rej_thres` | `reject_ratio` | `obj_upper_lim` | `obj_num` |
| --------- | ------- | ------ | --------------- | -------------- | --------------- | --------- |
| 1         | 1024    | 512    | 0               | 0/1202         |

### Questions

Questions are mostly listed on the whiteboard. I have no energy to reformulate these because of unexpected pain in the stomach.

The log file says that the gaps is 200, but I choose the gap value as 500, which is default. I don't know what is going on here.